How much does the application fee cost?
The application fee is reviewed periodically. Presently the application fee is GH¢200.00 for Ghanaians and US$110.00 for international students and Ghanaians living abroad.

Can one apply with more than one set of results?
Yes. You can apply with up to 3 sets of results.

Can the application forms get finished before the deadline?
No. please the e-voucher is generated from the Banks’ system and cannot get finished.

What should the background colour of the passport photograph be?
It should be white.

Can I visit my application document after I have finished filling the form online? If so, till when?
Yes. Until the May/June WASSCE results are published, you can go back to your application form as many times as possible, either to view or to make changes.

What do I do if I have difficulty logging in?
Try logging in after 8 p.m. or late at night when the number of people trying to log in will have reduced.

Is the application process for Distance Education the same as for programmes on the main campus?
Yes, it is.

Where can one get the University of Ghana application e-vouchers to buy?
You can purchase the e-voucher from any of the following banks:
Ecobank
Agricultural Development Bank
Republic Bank
Prudential Bank
Fidelity Bank
Universal Merchant Bank
GCB Bank
Consolidated Bank Ghana (CBG)
Zenith Bank
You can also purchase e-voucher using the Momo short code *187*18# on all networks.

Do you admit students with Nov/Dec results?
Yes, we do.

I am writing WASSCE in May/June this year. Can I apply?
Yes. Anyone writing WASSCE in May/June this year is eligible to apply.

I will be writing NOV/DEC this year. Can I apply?
No. Admissions will be released before the NOV/DEC results are out.

How many WASSCE results does University of Ghana take in total?
University of Ghana takes a total of three sittings
Accepts all Past WASSCE & SSCE results
Accepts a combination May/June & Nov/Dec Results
Accepts a combination of WASSCE & SSCE
Awaiting candidates can indicate their past WASSCE/SSCE results if they have one.

I will be writing NOV/DEC this year, can I apply for admissions?
Unfortunately, you cannot as application will be processed before NOV/DEC results is released by WAEC.

Do I have to enter my WASSCE results when applying?
No. There is no need to enter your WASSCE results, instead you are to enter your Index number, year and month you wrote the WASSCE.

Why are there different cut off points for males and females?
This is due to the affirmative action policy to encourage more females enrolling in tertiary education.

Do you accept Diploma Holders from other tertiary institutions?
No. We only accept Diploma holders from the University of Ghana or as determined by the University. We however accept HND holders from recognized Technical Universities into similar fields.

Does the University of Ghana run a Diploma programme in Nursing?
No. Diploma programmes in Nursing are run by the various Nursing Training Colleges

I am applying with foreign results aside WASSCE, do I have to scan and upload the results?
Yes. You have to scan and attach your results slip and indicate the details of the results.

Do I have to post my applications forms to the University after application?
Applications are strictly done online.

How do I know I have gained admission into the University of Ghana?
Successful applicants will receive a text message based on the contact details they provided and if not, they should check for their status on the University Website.

After I have gained admission to University of Ghana, what is the next step for me?
Download your provisional admission letter by entering your Serial Number and Pin.
Read carefully the instructions on your admission letter and when dully satisfied, you can make payment of your fees at the bank.
After making the payment, be checking from the University website for any new announcement regarding accommodation, orientation, registration, matriculation and lectures.

Can I make changes after I have submitted my application online?
Yes you can, the University will also reopen the application portal for a few days to enable applicants review their application after the release of the May/June WASSCE results.
Applicants must ensure that their Biographical Data, WAEC Index Number, Year and month of examination are correct.

What is the difference between regular and fee paying?
The difference is the amount of fees paid to the University. A student is considered admission into a fee-paying programme if he or she did not meet the regular cutoff point.
Do Ghanaians with foreign educational backgrounds pay foreign student fees?
No. Ghanaians with foreign educational backgrounds pay regular Ghanaian fees once they are able to prove that they are Ghanaians.

I have gained admission to University of Ghana but will not be able to come to school this year, is my admission valid for the following year?

No. You have to pay the required fees and write a letter to the University requesting for deferment of your admission.

I gained admission into the Accra City Campus. Can I change to the Legon Campus in the future?
No please.

What are the general entry requirements for admission?
An applicant for admission to a degree programme in the University of Ghana must have at least credits (A1 - C6 in WASSCE or A– D in SSSCE) in English, Core Mathematics and Integrated Science (for Science applicants) or Social Studies (for non-Science applicants).
Also, applicants must have three elective subjects in Science for those applying to Science or Agriculture related disciplines or three elective subjects in General Arts/Business for applicants applying to non-Science related disciplines, with the total aggregate not exceeding 24 for full time programmes. For Distance Learning, the total aggregate should not exceed 30.
In addition, Science applicants should have at least a grade C6 in WASSCE (D in SSSCE) in Social Studies/Life Skills and non-Science applicants should also have at least a grade C6 in WASSCE (D in SSSCE) in Integrated Science/Core Science.

Do you use Integrated Science or Social Studies in calculating the aggregate for Science students? 
In the calculation of aggregates, Integrated Science will be used for Science programmes and Social Studies for non-science programmes. However, all applicants must have at least credit passes in both Integrated Science and Social Studies.

Can a Home Economics student apply for Bsc Dietetics or Biological Sciences?
No. Dietetics is a programme for pure science students and is run by the School of Biomedical & Allied Health Sciences, College of Health Sciences. The entry requirements are Credit passes in Three (3) Electives comprising Chemistry, Physics and either Biology or Elective Mathematics

Can Home Economics students apply for Nursing or Midwifery?
Yes, they can.

What programs are available to Business students?
Business students can apply for the following programmes:
B.Sc. Administration
Bachelor of Laws (LLB)
Bachelor of Arts

Do you favour Business students when admitting into Business Administration?
No, we do not. The entry requirement into Business Administration is ‘Any Three Elective subjects.
The background does not matter once you meet the cutoff point.
 
Is there a B. A. option at the Business School?
Yes. From the 2016/2017 academic year, the Bachelor of Arts in Administration (B. A. Admin) programme has been reintroduced.

Do I have to go through any screening process before I gain admission?
A programme like bachelor of fine Arts requires you attend an audition before gaining admission.
Some programmes in the College of Health Sciences also requires applicants write entrance examination and/or attend an interview.
The list successful applicants invited for screening will be published on the university website.

Can I gain admissions into fee-paying programme if I fall below the admissions cut off point for my programme of choice?
Yes, an applicant may gain admission into a fee-paying programme for failing to meet the required admissions cut off point.

My aggregate is more than 24 and I have all the required credit passes (C6), can I apply for a regular programme or as fee paying?
No please, any aggregate more than 24 will qualify you for Distance Education, which is runned on weekends in all the regional learning centers and is the same four-year degree programme.

Can Agric Science students apply for the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine programme?
No please, the requirement for this programme is Biology, Chemistry and either Physics or Elective Mathematics.

What programmes do you offer for Distance Learning?
Programmes on offered at Distance Learning are:
B.Sc. Administration
Bachelor of Arts
B. Sc. Information Technology
B. Sc. Nursing (For professional nurses only). 

What programmes do you offer at the Accra City Campus?
Programmes on offer at the Accra City Campus are:
B.Sc. Administration
Bachelor of Arts

Can I change my programme after the first year?
No, you cannot